>> Scott Moss: Cool, all right,
welcome back, hope everyone had a small,
nice break.
So let's hop into creating some content.
Yeah, so how about we go back
to our Contentful instance,
and I'm gonna click on content here.
I don't have any content, so
like there say, now for the fun part,
[LAUGH] I'm going to click here,
I'm going to make a new hero, okay?
As you can see, all my required
fields are lit up, it's a form.
So this is what people on your
content team, your marketing team,
whoever is responsible for
editing content, this is what they'll see.
So everything we just selected
on that content model page,
that's what gets rendered here.
So for the title, for this pre-title,
I'm just gonna say something like,
Beta is live, something like that.
For the title, I'm gonna say,
Work in progress,
we're still thinking of it.
[LAUGH] And then for the subtitle,
I'm just gonna put a bunch of random words
here because I don't know what to say yet.
So we're gonna put that there.
And then for our Call To Actions,
we get this nice little GUI.
So I'm gonna click here,
select the Button, I wanna add a button.
This button has a label, the first
one will say Getting Started, and
it's gonna just stay here.
It's gonna stay at home.
>> Scott Moss: I'm then
gonna click Publish on this,
we'll talk about the different
states in a minute.
They're mostly all
the same across most CMSs.
So I'm gonna click Publish.
I'm then going to make another
button because it says you need two.
So I'm gonna do that.
Make another button.
And this one's gonna say,
Read the docs, something like that.
And it's gonna go to /docs, and
I will publish that one, and go back.
So we'll notice in most headless CMS UIs,
you're just gonna be in like modal hell.
There'll just be modals on top of modals,
on top of modals.
Every relationship, there's another modal.
So you have to be able to go back,
and I think that's where,
I remember when we were working on our CMS
and we used one of those apps where you
can watch a user's session to see what
they do, they all got stuck there.
It was just, unless you are just
the person making the schema and
you understand relationships,
you will get lost on that.
So there's a balance between putting
a bunch of stuff on one schema and
not putting too much on one schema,
and it's never perfect.
So I think it's one of those things that
have to be solved between the developer
who's designing the schema and the content
person who's gonna be filling it out.
Like, there has to be like some education
there, some meeting, some agreement.
So, it's just that typically those two
people aren't the best at talking with
each other.
[LAUGH] A lot of CMSs fall through those
cracks simply because the developer
can't talk to the content person
very well and vice versa.
Okay, so that's there, and
then I'm going to publish this whole hero.
So I'm gonna do that.
So there we go, if I go back to my
content list, I now have three things,
I have one hero that I made, and
I have two buttons that I made.
>> Scott Moss: You should have something
similar, and they should all be published.
Now what I wanna do is, before I go
into the app and write the code,
because we're using GraphQL, I want to
try out the actual query that we're
gonna be running, so
I can just go Copy and Paste it.
So luckily, because we are using GraphQL,
we can use some really cool tools.
So one of the tools is gonna be called,
if you just Google,
Apollo Studio, you Google that.
They have this Explorer Sandbox, go there.
Click on that.
Click on the Explorer Sandbox, and
then what you can do up here in the URL,
you can add the GraphQL URL for
Contentful.
So we'll just do that.
So I'm just gonna grab the one
that we have in fetch, right?
We'll grab this URL here, not that.
Come here.
Grab this URL and go,
why is my dictionary open?
Go here.
>> Scott Moss: And
put this up here at the top.
You need to obviously get
rid of this placeholder for
this environment variable and
add in your real space ID.
So let me go get mine.
>> Scott Moss: Like that, and
then you need to add in some headers.
So you click on Headers here at
the bottom, you can click on a New Header.
Click here it says Header key,
go to Authorization.
>> Scott Moss: And then you want to paste
in your access token with the word Bearer
in front of it.
So Bearer space, make sure there's
a space after the word Bearer,
and grab your access token and
place it in there.
And then once you do that,
boom, it'll load up like magic.
>> Scott Moss: You know you did it right
when you see a bunch of stuff here
on the left.
>> Scott Moss: So the steps to
follow again, add the GraphQL URL
at the top here, make sure you
put your space ID on the end.
Click on Headers,
add an Authorization Header.
The value should be Bearer space,
your access token that's in your env file.
Once you do that, you don't have to hit
refresh, you don't have to do anything.
It should populate with some, if you
know what GraphQL is, these are just,
you can think of these as like
routes that you can hit, but
they're based on your Contentful schema.
So it's going to evolve.
As you make more content models,
this will change.
This is the cheat code.
This is how you build really quickly.
I think GraphQL is probably the most
useful on the frontend when it comes
to CMSs.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, I'll keep going then.
So, to use this tool,
let me make this bigger.
To use this tool, it's very simple,
we don't even really have to do anything.
I want to be able to get
the one hero that I have and
get the data for it and
put it on the page.
So there are a bunch
of ways I can do that.
If I use the one here that's called hero,
it requires an ID.
So I could, being the smart developer I
am, go get the ID that was created for
that one hero, but
that's assuming I made the hero.
What if the content creator made the hero?
I just made the model and
then they went and made the hero.
So, I guess I could still go get it.
So there's this like condition of like,
I don't know what the idea is,
cuz in most cases you don't
know what the idea is of
something unless you got it from
a list in the original instance.
And I don't need a list of heros, so I'm
not gonna hard code it here because again,
they could delete that hero,
make another one, and
then that ID is gonna break my app.
So instead, what I can do with Contentful
is I'm just gonna click on the hero
collection, which is
how you can query for,
you can basically do filtering
on the heroes collection.
Like, find me a hero that has this field
value that contains this and limit to one,
so I'll do something like that, right?
So I'm gonna click on,
I can hit this plus button right here, and
it's just gonna add it for me.
I don't even have to write anything,
it's gonna make a GraphQL query.
If you're looking at this, don't worry
about it, just look at this over here,
these are the fields that you want,
you just click plus on the fields that
you want and it'll add them for you.
So for us, we want to get all the items,
so I'm gonna say,
give me the items like that,
and then I want the title,
I want the subtitle, I want the pre-title.
And then I want to get all the buttons,
which we called Call To Actions.
So I'm gonna say, Give me those.
And out of those, I want the items.
And from that,
I want the link and the label.
So I want all of that.
>> Scott Moss: You're right that
if you are fancy with GraphQL,
it'll all complete for you.
If you type, it'll say that.
>> Scott Moss: So that's my collection,
so if I run this, and
actually let me go back,
I could limit to one but
we only made one,
I don't have a content team right now.
So I'm just gonna trust that I'm
only gonna make one for now.
Again, a lot of CMSs have
a restriction you can add, like this.
You can only make one instance of
this model and nothing else, and
that would be useful here,
but they don't have it.
So I'm gonna run it and
there we go, I give back.
If you never use GraphQL, you're gonna
give back data in the exact same shape
that this describes, the exact same shape.
So that's what we got back,
we got data.heroCollection,
that has an items property on it, that's
an array of objects that look like this.
Each one of those has an array of buttons.
That's the flow, as I make content,
I make my model, I make my content,
I come in here and I test it,
and then I just copy this.
I just copy this whole thing for
Bao, just give me that query.